docs/DEBUG_android.md, before:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 -->
<p align="left"><img src="https://vulkan.lunarg.com/img/NewLunarGLogoBlack.png" alt="LunarG" width=263 height=113 /></p>

[![Creative Commons][1]][2]

[1]: https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nd/4.0/88x31.png "Creative Commons License"
[2]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/

Copyright &copy; 2025 LunarG, Inc.

# GFXReconstruct Capture layer debugging - Android

***This document describes how to debug the GFXReconstruct capture layer
on Android using lldb-server.***

## Index

1. [Problem](#problem)
2. [Setting up lldb-server](#setting-up-lldb-server)
3. [Client setup](#client-setup)
   1. [VSCode](#vscode)
   2. [CLI](#cli)
4. [Waiting for debugger](#waiting-for-debugger)

## Problem

Android apps under development can be debugged easily through Android Studio. However, the GFXR capture layer is
a shared object file, not an individual app that can be debugged the easy way.

This document illustrates a method by which the `lldb-server` binary included with the Android NDK can be used for debugging
a .so built in debug mode with any Android app.

## Setting up lldb-server

The first step is to locate and copy the lldb-server binary to a location on the Android device,
making sure to give it execute permissions as well.
```
adb root
adb push $(find $ANDROID_NDK_HOME -path "*/aarch64/lldb-server") /data/local/tmp
adb shell chmod +x /data/local/tmp/lldb-server
```

Then, run the following command to start the server listening on port 9999
```
adb shell /data/local/tmp/lldb-server platform --server --listen localhost:9999
```

lldb-server is now ready to accept connections from a client debugger.

## Client setup

On the client side, we need to launch `lldb` with options to do the following:
  1. Disable breaking on signals we don't care about (e.g. SIGSEGV)
  2. Load the capture layer's debug symbols
  3. Attach to the remote debugger on the phone

You need two pieces of information before continuing:
  1. Your device's ID
  2. The path to the directory containing the compiled Android layer e.g. `android/layer/build/intermediates/cxx/Debug/3m4on72q/obj/arm64-v8a/`

You can obtain your device's id with the `adb devices` command:
```
> adb devices
List of devices attached
44021FDJH00229  device
```

We document two methods for attaching a client debugger to lldb-server: VScode, and CLI

### VScode
To enable VScode to be the client debugger, you need to set up your
`launch.json` to be like the following:
```
{
    "version": "0.2.0",
    "configurations": [
        {
            "name": "Android",
            "type": "lldb",
            "request": "attach",
            "pid": "${input:android_pid}",
            "initCommands": [
                "platform select remote-android",
                "platform connect connect://<your-device-id here>:9999",
                "process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGSEGV",
                "process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGBUS",
                "process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGPWR",
                "process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGXCPU",
                "settings append target.exec-search-paths ${workspaceFolder}/android/layer/build/intermediates/cxx/Debug/<some numbers such as '3m4on72q'>/obj/<target device architecture e.g. arm64-v8a>/"
            ]
        }
    ],
    "inputs": [
        {
            "id": "android_pid",
            "type": "command",
            "command": "shellCommand.execute",
            "args": {
                "command": "adb shell pidof <apk name e.g. com.example.VkCube>"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```
When you go to Start Debugging, the `adb shell pidof` command will run, and present you with an
option whose content is the PID of the target process. Selecting this will launch lldb, and will
begin the process of automatically attaching to the remote debugger.

### CLI

If you prefer CLI-based debugging, then create an `lldbinit` file at the root of the repo with the following contents:
```
platform select remote-android
platform connect connect://<your-device-id here>:9999
process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGSEGV
process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGPWR
process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGXCPU
process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGBUS
settings append target.exec-search-paths $PWD/android/layer/build/intermediates/cxx/Debug/<some numbers such as '3m4on72q'>/obj/<target device architecture e.g. arm64-v8a>/
attach $(adb shell pidof <apk name e.g. com.example.VkCube>)
```

Then (assuming `lldb` is in $PATH) launch `lldb` with `lldb -s ./lldbinit`
From here `lldb` will connect, and present you with the typical `lldb` CLI.



## Waiting for debugger

It is often desired to be able to attach the debugger to the app as soon as it launches.

Unfortunately, since we only have control over the layer, the best we can do is construct
an arbitrary spinlock in `VulkanCaptureManager::OverrideCreateInstance()` that we release
once the debugger has attached.

At the start of `VulkanCaptureManager::OverrideCreateInstance`, add:
```
while (util::platform::GetEnv("debug.gfxrecon.debug_wait") == "1") {
    usleep(100000);
}
```
So you can use `adb shell setprop debug.gfxrecon.debug_wait 1` to enable the spinlock,
and `adb shell setprop debug.gfxrecon.debug_wait 0` to disable it.

This enables the following workflow:
  1. Start `lldb-server`
  2. Start the app with `debug.gfxrecon.debug_wait` set to `1`
  3. Launch the `lldb` client and wait for the connection, set breakpoints, etc.
  4. Set `debug.gfxrecon.debug_wait` to `0` to break the spinlock
  5. Use the debugger as normal

Commit message:

Mention the Tasks Shell Input extension

docs/DEBUG_android.md, after:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 -->
<p align="left"><img src="https://vulkan.lunarg.com/img/NewLunarGLogoBlack.png" alt="LunarG" width=263 height=113 /></p>

[![Creative Commons][1]][2]

[1]: https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nd/4.0/88x31.png "Creative Commons License"
[2]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/

Copyright &copy; 2025 LunarG, Inc.

# GFXReconstruct Capture layer debugging - Android

***This document describes how to debug the GFXReconstruct capture layer
on Android using lldb-server.***

## Index

1. [Problem](#problem)
2. [Setting up lldb-server](#setting-up-lldb-server)
3. [Client setup](#client-setup)
   1. [VSCode](#vscode)
   2. [CLI](#cli)
4. [Waiting for debugger](#waiting-for-debugger)

## Problem

Android apps under development can be debugged easily through Android Studio. However, the GFXR capture layer is
a shared object file, not an individual app that can be debugged the easy way.

This document illustrates a method by which the `lldb-server` binary included with the Android NDK can be used for debugging
a .so built in debug mode with any Android app.

## Setting up lldb-server

The first step is to locate and copy the lldb-server binary to a location on the Android device,
making sure to give it execute permissions as well.
```
adb root
adb push $(find $ANDROID_NDK_HOME -path "*/aarch64/lldb-server") /data/local/tmp
adb shell chmod +x /data/local/tmp/lldb-server
```

Then, run the following command to start the server listening on port 9999
```
adb shell /data/local/tmp/lldb-server platform --server --listen localhost:9999
```

lldb-server is now ready to accept connections from a client debugger.

## Client setup

On the client side, we need to launch `lldb` with options to do the following:
  1. Disable breaking on signals we don't care about (e.g. SIGSEGV)
  2. Load the capture layer's debug symbols
  3. Attach to the remote debugger on the phone

You need two pieces of information before continuing:
  1. Your device's ID
  2. The path to the directory containing the compiled Android layer e.g. `android/layer/build/intermediates/cxx/Debug/3m4on72q/obj/arm64-v8a/`

You can obtain your device's id with the `adb devices` command:
```
> adb devices
List of devices attached
44021FDJH00229  device
```

We document two methods for attaching a client debugger to lldb-server: VScode, and CLI

### VScode
To enable VScode to be the client debugger, you need to set up your
`launch.json` to be like the following:
```
{
    "version": "0.2.0",
    "configurations": [
        {
            "name": "Android",
            "type": "lldb",
            "request": "attach",
            "pid": "${input:android_pid}",
            "initCommands": [
                "platform select remote-android",
                "platform connect connect://<your-device-id here>:9999",
                "process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGSEGV",
                "process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGBUS",
                "process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGPWR",
                "process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGXCPU",
                "settings append target.exec-search-paths ${workspaceFolder}/android/layer/build/intermediates/cxx/Debug/<some numbers such as '3m4on72q'>/obj/<target device architecture e.g. arm64-v8a>/"
            ]
        }
    ],
    "inputs": [
        {
            "id": "android_pid",
            "type": "command",
            "command": "shellCommand.execute",
            "args": {
                "command": "adb shell pidof <apk name e.g. com.example.VkCube>"
            }
        }
    ]
}
```
When you go to Start Debugging, the `adb shell pidof` command will run, and present you with an
option whose content is the PID of the target process. Selecting this will launch lldb, and will
begin the process of automatically attaching to the remote debugger.

Please note that the ability to allow shell output to be the input to VScode tasks
is provided by the [Tasks Shell Input](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=augustocdias.tasks-shell-input) extension.

### CLI

If you prefer CLI-based debugging, then create an `lldbinit` file at the root of the repo with the following contents:
```
platform select remote-android
platform connect connect://<your-device-id here>:9999
process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGSEGV
process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGPWR
process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGXCPU
process handle -p true -s false -n false SIGBUS
settings append target.exec-search-paths android/layer/build/intermediates/cxx/Debug/<some numbers such as '3m4on72q'>/obj/<target device architecture e.g. arm64-v8a>/
attach $(adb shell pidof <apk name e.g. com.example.VkCube>)
```

Then (assuming `lldb` is in $PATH) launch `lldb` with `lldb -s ./lldbinit`
From here `lldb` will connect, and present you with the typical `lldb` CLI.



## Waiting for debugger

It is often desired to be able to attach the debugger to the app as soon as it launches.

Unfortunately, since we only have control over the layer, the best we can do is construct
an arbitrary spinlock in `VulkanCaptureManager::OverrideCreateInstance()` that we release
once the debugger has attached.

At the start of `VulkanCaptureManager::OverrideCreateInstance`, add:
```
while (util::platform::GetEnv("debug.gfxrecon.debug_wait") == "1") {
    usleep(100000);
}
```
So you can use `adb shell setprop debug.gfxrecon.debug_wait 1` to enable the spinlock,
and `adb shell setprop debug.gfxrecon.debug_wait 0` to disable it.

This enables the following workflow:
  1. Start `lldb-server`
  2. Start the app with `debug.gfxrecon.debug_wait` set to `1`
  3. Launch the `lldb` client and wait for the connection, set breakpoints, etc.
  4. Set `debug.gfxrecon.debug_wait` to `0` to break the spinlock
  5. Use the debugger as normal
